The software called library management system  assists in managing the operations of a library,  including the  tracking of volumes , members, loans, and returns. There are three roles in it : Member to look for books and borrow, return, or renew them; Librarian to add books, handle requests  and manage returns; and Admin  to administer the library settings and personnel. The technology improves the member and staff experience, expedites library operations, and lowers errors rates. It works well for libraries of all sizes to efficiently manage their resources.
The library management system is designed to help manage the operations of a library. It includes three main modules :Admin , Librarian , and member each with specific functionalities to manage books, members and library process

Admin :- The admin role focuses on overseeing the library ‘s.
Librarian :-The librarian role is central to the day-to-day operations of the library.
Member	:- The member role is designed for library patrons who wish to use the library resources.

 In our website the admin will have the default credentials for login into the website with username and password.  After login the admin adds and views the different library locations , ensuring that the system accurately reflects the physical or digital presence of the library. Admins are also responsible for managing the librarian accounts , including adding new librarians, Updating their information, and removing them if needed.Further more they can add and organise book categories to ensure that books are well-categorised for easy to search  and discovery. And also the admin manages the overall book  inventory , adding new books  with book name,Number of  book copies available and book type(EBook, Dvd, cd ..etc) into the website . Here each book has a unique id. The admin can view the list of books which are added to the library.
The librarian will login into this website with their credential like email and password. After logging in, the librarian also adds books  with book name,Number of  book copies available and book type(EBook, Dvd, cd ..etc) into the website . Here each book has a unique id. The librarian can view the list of books which are added to the library..A significant part of librarians duties involves handling member interaction related to borrowing the books.
The member can register into the website with their related details . After registration the member can login into the website with a registered email and password. After successfully login the member can search for and view the details of available books , helping them to find the resources they need quickly. After that, members can send a  request to borrow books and also have the flexibility to cancel their requests  if they change their minds. If a book has 5 copies and all 5 are currently borrowed by customers, a 6th member’s request to borrow the book will not be accepted for the between dates. Instead, the request will be added to a reservation queue. Once a copy becomes available, the system will notify the 6th member that the book is ready for collection. If a customer borrows a book, they can renew it only twice, with each renewal extending the borrowing period by 15 days. However, if all copies of the book are borrowed and a 6th member has placed a reservation, the system may not allow renewal, ensuring the next member in line can borrow the book once it's returned.
The librarian can view, accept, or reject the borrowing requests submitted by members, depending on the book availability or member eligibility. Once a request is approved  , the librarian  assigns the requested book to the member . 
After borrowing the book the customer can view the status of their borrowing items, return them to the appropriate location, or request a renewal if they need more items.The system will alert the customer one day before the book's return date.. If a customer returns a borrowed book after the due date, the librarian can add an additional late fee to the book. The customer will be required to pay this fee when returning the book. The fee will depend on the number of days the book is overdue, and the system will calculate the total amount to be paid.This reminder will help the customer avoid the late fees by returning or renewing the book on time
Additionally the librarians manage book return , accepting them back into the library and collecting any applicable fine for late returns.
The member can view the status borrowing   requests, whether accepted or rejected , providing them with clear communication regarding their interactions with the library.
